Somewhere along the way,
before I can even remember,
I got the memo something is wrong with me.
I'm not good enough.
If something bad happens, it's my fault.
I have to always fix something about myself.
I have to work harder.
I can't make mistakes.
I must anticipate every scenario,
risk, reaction.
Don't be too needy.
I hate myself.
I'm too sensitive.
I'm sorry.
Stop crying.
It's my fault.
Something's wrong with me.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
But I've been trying to understand that
just because it all
feels like my fault doesn't mean it is.
I learned that the people
who have caused me the most pain
do so because of their own pain, too.
That the ways I felt not good enough were reinforced
by the way they might struggle with that too.
The ways my sadness couldn’t be held
mirrored by the challenge of holding their own.
Sometimes I'm sad about what could have been.
The pasts I never had.
The years I could have gotten back.
The person I could have been.
The people we might all have been
if things didn't have to play out the way they did.
But I can't change the past.
I can't rewrite what can't be rewritten.
But what I need to do
is build the world I need for myself.
If what hurt me is avoidance, neglect,
brushing things under the rug,
I'll go directly to the site where it all happened.
I'll stare in the face.
I'll go back to the things
that everyone else long forgot about.
If what hurt me is the pressure to just move on.
I'll let myself dwell.
I’ll play things over and over as much as I need.
Write and rewrite, over and over,
about the things that no one else
wants to hear about anymore.
If what hurt me is not being heard
in my sadness, and in my desires,
I'll show up over and over to hear myself.
I'll be the person I didn't have but needed.
I'll practice over and over again,
seeing myself and letting myself be seen.
I'll practice over and over again.
Seeing myself and letting myself be seen
by the people who can care for me
in the ways I need.
I'll reprogram it all line by line,
even if it's slow and redundant,
even if it's a lot of fucking work.
I'll take every flaky, doughy layer of who I am,
and chop, and combine, and integrate,
and mix, and remix, and season, and transmute.
Over and over and over.
Until I transform into something new.
Until the day I won't be so afraid anymore.
Until the day that I can really believe
in every slice of me,
and every slice that comes,
that there was nothing wrong with me then.
There's nothing wrong with me now.
There was nothing wrong with me this whole time.